- [Instructor] Let's now look at how
we might write some unit tests
for spring controller component,
but first let's review our unit test objectives.
We're going to be writing a contact
management unit test class where
we're just testing adding a contact.
And we isolate our test to just
the contact management controller
which means we're going to mock out
our contact management service.
There will be a bit of setup as usual.
So just to preview what that is,
we will need to mimic or mock
some web browser behavior.
We want to instruct our test environment
to load our controllers.
We also want to instruct our test environment
to just load mocks for our service components
or anything else beyond a service layer.
So let's get started.
Here in our Spring project, I'm going to go
into our source test Java Tree
and go to our controller package
and I want to open up the contacts
management controller unit test.
And let me double click to expand this window.
And let's walk through a little bit of the setup.
What's new for our setup here is the @WebMvcTest annotation.
That's basically letting our test environment know
that we will be unit testing an MVC controller.
We're also going to add a mock bean
for our contacts management service
because we want to mock out the
service component completely.
Remember we're just focusing on unit testing our controller.
So we then need to inject mocks onto
our contact management controller.
So we need to make sure we add that annotation.
And we have some setup needs where we're
just initializing our mocks.
So now let's scroll down to our test case here.
The test for Add Contact Happy Path,
it begins with us just setting up
a mock customer contact record.
This is the record that the mock business
service will return us.
And for now, we're going to add
just a simple amount of information.
Let's give a first name to this contact.
So now we have a contact for Fred
and the next thing we're going to do
for our setup is mock out the business service
returning this contact to us.
So we're going to call on the mock business service.
Any time a customer contact class is added,
simply return the mock contact record
that we just established.
The next thing you want to do is simulate
the form bean that would post from the web browser.
So let's setup some information that
might be in that form bean.
So this will be the kind of thing
that a user would type into a web form.
So maybe they type Fred's name.
Let's just add something else to make
this a little more interesting.
Let's give Fred an email, fredj@myemail.com.
So this is simulating what a user would type
in a web form.
And the next thing you really want to get to is showing
how we're going to use the mock MVC framework
to simulate posting this form or submitting
this form to the controller.
So on the mock MVC component, we're going to call
a perform or post.
We're going to send in the contact form bean.
So I'm going to copy the name of that class.
I'm going to pass that into my post
and then I'm going to do something
in the Mockito framework which would be
equivalent to assertions.
We need to setup here what we expect to get back.
Well I'm expecting status code of okay
because this is a happy path test.
I'm also expecting a return and that will complete
a happy path scenario.
So let's minimize this window and let's run this test.
I'm going to go back into my package explorer
and right click on my test for Add Contact Happy Path.
And let's run as a JUnit test.
And wait for that lovely green bar
and that's what we have.
But let's take this test one step further.
We have a happy path.
Let's consider an unhappy path.
So I've started a test case called
testAddContactBizServiceRuleNotSatisfied.
So we want to simulate what would happen
if the user forgets to type in
a required piece of information like the first name.
As far as the business service implementation is concerned,
a business rule violation should result
in a null object being returned which is
why we have simulated that scenario here.
Whenever a customer contact is added,
simply return null.
Let's move on now to simulating
what the user would enter into the form
when they forgot to type the first name.
So let's just enter a last name here.
And scroll down a bit here.
I'm going to copy the name of this variable
because I want to send that into my form submission
and I expect a status of this time not okay.
I know that this controller is implemented
to return a redirect to the user
and I happen to know that that status code is a 302.
So I expect a 302 code to be returned to the browser
when a business rule has been violated.
So let's save this test and let's minimize
the window here and let's run that test.
I'm going to go back into my package explorer,
right click on the test.
Run it as a JUnit.
And wait for that green bar and we got what we wanted there.
So let's just look at one last simple thing.
Something I've gotten started which you can surely complete.
We are now ready to start writing more unit tests.
Remember there's a new feature coming.
The test for add contact occasion can now be written.
Let's review what we just did.
We demonstrated how you can do some
pretty in-depth controller testing
without even starting a web server
simply by using the mock MVC framework
to mock out all of the controller's interactions
with a web server and a web browser.
We showed that you can unit test
a controller's behavior, both with a mock server
and your mock service components.
This means a controller can be fully developed
and tested independent of the service
component it relies on.
We also showed that the controller's view routing is
sending the user to the correct webpage
or a redirect when it's supposed to do so.
With the benefits of mocks in place
where we needed them, we were able to add
test coverage for the existing add contact feature.
And we had just enough groundwork laid to begin
adding test coverage for the new feature
Add Contact Occasion.
Now we are in position to stay in flow
with writing test code then production code,
then test code and so on, keeping the test driven
cycle going to drive a single component to completion.